README.md, before:

# WinMD Explorer

WinMD Explorer is a modern, Windows 11-styled Markdown editor and file explorer built with Electron and React. It features a sleek dark mode interface, tabbed navigation, and powerful AI capabilities powered by Google Gemini.

![WinMD Explorer Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/twitter/twemoji/master/assets/72x72/1f4c1.png)

## Features

- **🪟 Windows 11 Aesthetic**: Designed to look and feel native on modern Windows systems.
- **📑 Tabbed Interface**: Open and edit multiple files simultaneously.
- **✨ AI-Powered**: Built-in integration with **Google Gemini 3.0** for document summarization, Q&A, and chat.
- **📝 Professional Editor**: Powered by **Monaco Editor** (the core of VS Code) for a top-tier writing experience.
- **👁️ Live Preview**: Instant Markdown rendering with support for:
  - **Mermaid Diagrams**: Create flowcharts and diagrams.
  - **Math (KaTeX)**: Render complex mathematical equations.
  - **Syntax Highlighting**: Prism-based highlighting for code blocks.
  - **GFM**: Tables, task lists, and more.
- **🔄 Synchronized Scrolling**: Editor and preview panes scroll together.
- **💾 Native File System**: Open, edit, and save files directly to your hard drive.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v18 or later recommended)
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/winmd-explorer.git
   cd winmd-explorer
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   # or
   yarn install
   ```

### Running Locally

To start the application in development mode:

```bash
npm start
```

This will launch the Electron window with the React application running inside.

### Building for Production

To create a distributable installer/executable for your platform (Windows, macOS, or Linux):

```bash
npm run make
```

The output files will be located in the `out/` directory.

## Configuration

### AI Features

To use the AI features (Chat, Summarization), you need a Google Gemini API Key.
1. Get a free key from [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/).
2. Click the **Settings (Gear)** icon in the app sidebar.
3. Paste your API key. Keys are stored locally on your device.

## Tech Stack

- **Electron**: Desktop runtime.
- **React**: UI library.
- **Tailwind CSS**: Styling.
- **Monaco Editor**: Code editing component.
- **Google GenAI SDK**: AI integration.
- **React Markdown / Remark / Rehype**: Markdown rendering pipeline.
- **Lucide React**: Iconography.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: Implement resizable panels and MCP tool integration
Adds functionality to resize the sidebar and AI assistant panels.
Integrates MCP (Model Collaboration Platform) tools into the Gemini service, allowing the application to discover and utilize tools provided by MCP servers for enhanced AI capabilities. Updates local AI chat to support tool definitions.

README.md, after:

# WinMD Explorer

WinMD Explorer is a modern, Windows 11-styled Markdown editor and file explorer built with Electron and React. It features a sleek dark mode interface, tabbed navigation, and powerful AI capabilities powered by Google Gemini.

![WinMD Explorer Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/twitter/twemoji/master/assets/72x72/1f4c1.png)

## Features

- **🪟 Windows 11 Aesthetic**: Designed to look and feel native on modern Windows systems.
- **📑 Tabbed Interface**: Open and edit multiple files simultaneously.
- **✨ AI-Powered**: Built-in integration with **Google Gemini 3.0** for document summarization, Q&A, and chat.
- **↔️ Resizable Layout**: Fully adjustable sidebar and AI assistant panels to customize your workspace.
- **📝 Professional Editor**: Powered by **Monaco Editor** (the core of VS Code) for a top-tier writing experience.
- **👁️ Live Preview**: Instant Markdown rendering with support for:
  - **Mermaid Diagrams**: Create flowcharts and diagrams.
  - **Math (KaTeX)**: Render complex mathematical equations.
  - **Syntax Highlighting**: Prism-based highlighting for code blocks.
  - **GFM**: Tables, task lists, and more.
- **🔄 Synchronized Scrolling**: Editor and preview panes scroll together.
- **💾 Native File System**: Open, edit, and save files directly to your hard drive.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v18 or later recommended)
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/winmd-explorer.git
   cd winmd-explorer
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   # or
   yarn install
   ```

### Running Locally

To start the application in development mode:

```bash
npm start
```

This will launch the Electron window with the React application running inside.

### Building for Production

To create a distributable installer/executable for your platform (Windows, macOS, or Linux):

```bash
npm run make
```

The output files will be located in the `out/` directory.

## Configuration

### AI Features

To use the AI features (Chat, Summarization), you need a Google Gemini API Key.
1. Get a free key from [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/).
2. Click the **Settings (Gear)** icon in the app sidebar.
3. Paste your API key. Keys are stored locally on your device.

## Tech Stack

- **Electron**: Desktop runtime.
- **React**: UI library.
- **Tailwind CSS**: Styling.
- **Monaco Editor**: Code editing component.
- **Google GenAI SDK**: AI integration.
- **React Markdown / Remark / Rehype**: Markdown rendering pipeline.
- **Lucide React**: Iconography.

## License

MIT
